


  

ITM Group of Institution, Gwalior(M.P.)





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














ITM (Institute of Technology & Management)






About Institute
Director's Message
Programmes Offered

Department




Contact Us



OUTCOME BASED EDUCATION

Course Outcomes (COs)
Outcome Based Education (OBE) Process Manual


POs
PEOs
PSOs


Attainment of Program Outcomes

Course Outcomes (COs) Attained

2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020





Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering
About Department
Electronics & Communication engineering today is a multidisciplinary field that blends ingredients from electrical engineering, computer science engineering, information technology, and others. The Communication field now serves broader industries where the telephony, cellular, computer, data warehouse and entertainment industries have converged. It affects society in many aspects, including health, business, defense, security, space, banking, and social life.
Thus, as never before, a situation has arisen where a strong scientific manpower with technical background is needed to meet the growing challenges in the field of electronics for its research, development and applications. To achieve this, our energies are directed towards blending a sound understanding of fundamental science, engineering and technological aspects of electronics. The under graduate course of Electronics & Communication was started in 1997. The department has always been on a high growth path which reflected through M.Tech. in Embedded system & VLSI design in 2007. The department was accredited by National Board of Accreditation in 2009. The department has received grants from govt. agencies for up-gradation and modernization of laboratories.
No. seats B.E- 90M.Tech VLSI- 18

								

Our Vision
The Electronics and Communication Engineering department envisions to prepare world-class technocrats and entrepreneurs with fresh ideas and innovations to meet the demands of industrial development and social commitment.
Our Mission
Prepare students to solve real world problems through research and develop their entrepreneurship skills.
								
								To provide high quality education with effective teaching pedagogy.

Program Educational Objectives 

Our graduates will excel in professional career and/or higher education or in entrepreneurship.
Our graduates will have Knowledge, skills, attitude and teamwork capacity.
Our graduates will be globally competent and empowered.

Program Specific Outcomes  

The ability to understand the principles in VLSI, Signal Processing, Communication, Embedded System & Control Engineering.
To design, implement and test projects using the simulating software and hardware tools.
To demonstrate the leadership qualities and strive for the betterment of organization, environment and society.




HOD's Desk 






 Today's era is of Communication & Information Technology. With the advent of the advance technologies in this field the whole world is becoming very easily accessible. This branch is having wide scope in the public sector, Private sector as well as in Government sector. The professionals of this field will find a very good future prospectus since so many multinational companies are indented in the field of Communication i.e. BSNL, MTNL, AIRTEL, IDEA etc.


Students are placed in good renowned group of India and abroad i.e. BSNL, ISRO, NTPC, BHEL, Idea, Airtel, Infosys, Wipro, Accenture, Cogzinent, etc. The alumni of the department have secured their places in the higher echelons of the society and technical world. A good number of students are going for higher studies for their M.Tech, MS, MBA and PhD. from different reputed institutes in India and abroad. 

This branch has tremendous applications such as Telephony, Telegraphy, Radio & TV broadcasting, Mobile Communication (2G/3G/4G), Video Conferencing, Internet, e-mail, e-commerce, Industrial Automation, Military etc. As such there is no limit to its applications and scope as well. Every day you will find a new addition in the application of this field. 

It is a versatile branch, in the sense that the students holding the degree in the Electronics and Communication can build up their carrier in any field such as Computer Engineering, Information Technology and Communication etc. Our objective is to build up students who will be equally competent in all these fields. Keeping this in mind, we are working to develop well-equipped advanced computer based laboratories, to give the students full exposure to computer, Internet Technology, and the advancements in this field. 

The department has a variety of laborites according to the requirement of industry. Department has also a designing, developing and analyzing tool’s and software i.e. Multisim, Mentor Graphics, PCB Designing, Netsim, Matlab, Labview, Comsim etc.
 
The department encompasses a fine blend of renowned as well as young and dynamic faculties with a balanced mix from industry and academics. Most of the faculties have excellent track records and is drawn from leading institutes like IITs/NITs and other reputed universities. The faculty takes active interest in research and development activities. The infrastructure and lab facilities are upgraded from time to time and provide a good practical learning and innovative environment for UG students and PG researchers.
Infrastructure 
 The Electronics and Communication Branch, is enriched with well - developed laboratories, having variety of equipment useful for novice to understand concepts to high end equipment for different applications. The equipment and software tools are as per the industry requirements and standards. The department has following lab facilities in different areas and is listed as below: 
Communication Lab 
Electronics Devices & Circuit Lab  
Network Lab  
Microprocessor & Microcontroller Lab  
Digital Electronics Lab  
Software Lab  
Microwave & Antenna Engineering Lab  
Optical Fiber Communication Lab  
Digital Signal Processing Lab 
VLSI Lab  
Computer Networking Lab  
PCB Design Lab 
PLC Lab 
Measurement & Instrumentation Lab 
Makers Lab 
Exclusive R&D and Major Project Lab  

There are exclusive labs for carrying out research and development. These labs have important software like Tinapro, MATLAB, EDA software, Multisim, PCB wizard and Xilinx. For design of Integrated circuits, a new backend tool HEP1 from Mentor Graphics is available. One can design own IC and directly give it to foundry for manufacturing. Department has an exclusive Printed Circuit Board (PCB) Laboratory. This Lab manufacturer various types industries standard Printed Circuit Boards. These PCB’s are used in student’s projects and outsourced projects.



Scope and Placements
Graduates & Post graduates in Electronics & Communication Engineering have opportunities in govt. & private companies for installation, operation and maintenance of electronic equipments and systems. Defense, space and other large research organizations employ electronics engineers in design and development of complex devices and systems for signal processing and telecommunication. Industries involved in design and fabrication of devices, integrated circuits, embedded systems, electronic equipments etc. also provide large scale placements for engineers with this specialization. 
Students of Electronics and Communication have participated in CANSAT Competition organized by the American Astronautically Society (AAS), American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics(AIAA), and NASA an annual open world level competition. Mission was to simulate a sensor payload travelling through planetary atmosphere sampling of atmospheric composition during flight. The team of ITM-GOI named INDYAAN has participated in this competition project.
Knowledge of computer hardware, networking equipments and communication systems enables electronics engineering graduate to annex an edge in the IT job market. The skills and understanding developed in the course enable them to be preferred, as software professionals in IT companies. The students of ITM have	been placed in	companies like Capgemini, L&T, Bosch,	Siemens, TCS, Infosys, Hexaware, Accenture, Wipro, Cognizant, Amdocs, IGate, Sadex, Bitwise, Government Agencies like Defence, Navy, DRDO, ISRO, Prasar Bhartis. Public Sector Companies like BHEL, NTPC, BEL, BSNL


Learning Process and Methodology
  The methodology adopted to ensure proper learning includes Lectures, Tutorials and Practical's in groups of 30 each.  Classroom is equipped with LCD projector.

Evaluation Process

												Internal assessment is based on
												Midterm/Online test/ Activity 
												Midterm/Online test/ Activity
												PBL Activities
												Attendance 
												Discipline, Attitude & behavior of students 
												Extra classes for weak / hostel students are being arranged 
										
Two weeks practical training during summer break


										It is mandatory to undergo two weeks practical training by the students of VI semesters after the end of examination. After completion of practical training, they have to submit a practical training report and to deliver a presentation of their training report.

										
Development and Grooming of Students

											Department and Training Placement Department also arrange expert lecturers and workshop on:
 Personality Development 
 Technical Training 
 Moral / Ethics 
 Etiquettes & Manners 
 Mock Interviews 
 Communication Skills 
 Leadership 
 Confidence Building 
 Invited lectures from industries(hr personnel) are also being arranged to develop the students on present scenario / trends for placement

Mentorship Program

A faculty member is assigned 20-30 students. his/her role is 
to guide the students for academic excellence 
 to guide the students for personality development 
to guide the students for positive attitude, good behavior and discipline 
 to guide the students for proper dress, etiquettes and manners 
to motivate the students to participate in sports and cultural activities 
to refrain them not to indulge in ragging and other social evils


Methods of Measuring Learning Outcomes

If several different sources of data are used, it increases the probability that the findings present an accurate picture. We employ the following formal assessment procedures: 

 End-Of-Semester Course Evaluations 
 Departmental Mid-Semester Course Evaluations 
 Alumni Feedback 
 Employer Surveys 
 Department Academic Council Meetings 
 Faculty Meetings 
 Project Work 
 Job Placements 
 Professional Societies 
 Industrial Trainings 
 Professional Certifications 
 HR Summit 
 Research Publications



Industry Interaction 
  
                                    Expert from industries and renowned academic institute of India are invited to get an insightful overview of the current trends & innovation in the industry. Constant interaction with industry is being maintained through industrial visits arranged for the students. 
									Industrial visits conducted during session 2018-19:
                                    
                                    1.	Industrial Visit of Electronics (V semester) students in Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Gwalior on 09/10/18. Students are learn about switching process of mobile phone and fixed telephone network.
2.	Industrial visit of Electrical (VIII Semester and diploma) and Electronics (IV Semester) students in Priyanka Industries, Banmore, Morena on 01/03/19. Priyanka Industry is high rating Transformer manufacturing Industry. Student learns manufacturing process of transformer during this visit.

Department has arranged the visit to industries time to time for students. Following are the industries we have visited for students to make aware of industrial atmosphere. 

Doordarshan 
Rail Spring Plant, Gwalior 
Surya Roshni, Malanpur 
SRF, Malanpur and many more…….. 
Recently, Department has organized an industrial tour to Advance Technology, Chandigarh, Micro Tuner Groups, Hydro Power Plant, Manali. Advance Technology, Chandigarh is an ISO 9001:2008 Certified Company deals in the field of Hardware Development, Embedded Products Development, Security & Surveillance and Engineers Training Programs.













Events / Seminars / Expert Talk / Workshops
  
							
National Seminar on Recent Innovation in Signal Processing and Embedded Systems (RISE – 2018), April 19-21, 2018
Swatch Bharat summer internship in the month of November-2018. 
			












Students Achievements
  
							With the persistent hard work of one year, six students of the Makers-lab of the EC dept. of ITM-GOI have developed a Humanoid Robot “Adhvik 1.0”. This robot is capable to identify the person through face recognition and also welcome the guest by handshaking gesture with pronouncing the identified person’s name. 
Students of the department have secured Vice Chancellor Award.
	Sajal Agrawal (2006-2010) student of the department has got Vice Chancellor Award by the R.G.P.V., Bhopal. 
	Harshali Rewadikar (2009-2013) student of the department has got Vice Chancellor Award by the R.G.P.V., Bhopal. 
Abhinay Gupta (2009-2013) student of the department has secured 153 Rank in GATE -2013.
Ayushi Jain 2012-2016 batch student of the department has got Vice Chancellor Award by the R.G.P.V., Bhopal
Priyanka Shrivastava 2015- 2019 batch student of the department has got Vice Chancellor Award by the R.G.P.V., Bhopal

























Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 










