


  

ITM Group of Institution, Gwalior(M.P.)





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














Engineering Sciences & Humanities






About Institute
Director's Message
Programmes Offered

Department




Contact Us






About Department
Science is nothing but trained and organized common sense differing from the latter only as a veteran may differ from a raw recruit: and its methods differ from those of common sense only as far as the guardsman’s cut and thrust differ from the manner in which a savage wields his club. 
All streams of the engineering are well supported by the Department of Engineering Sciences as prescribed by the curricula of studies. All Departments have well equipped laboratory facilities and qualified faculty.

Department of Physics
The Department of Physics has well equipped lab to impart quality lab education to undergraduate engineering students. The experiments related with laser, Newton ring and grating provide in-depth understanding of phenomena of interference and diffraction which are the basics for optical communication. The experiments of dielectric constant,	band	energy	gap and	Hall Effect are available to study electrical and magnetic	properties of materials. The department has also established an advance lab at research	level for the preparation of	semi conductor thin film for solar devices. The characteristics	of these materials are	being	investigated	using	Spectrophotometer which is available in the institute	as a central facility.
Sponsored Research Project:
A research project entitled “Electronic and Transport Properties of Chemically Functionalized Nanostructures” under department of Physics. Sanctioned by M.P. Council of science and Technology Bhopal.

Department of Chemistry:
The laboratory facilities of Department of Engineering Chemistry provide a good exposure of analytical skill to engineering students. Apart from routine experiment, the department has specialized facilities like spectrophotometer, pH	meter, viscometer, conductivity	meter etc. The	department has also established Bio-coordination Synthetic Laboratory an advanced	research lab for	synthesis of pharmaceutical compounds. All	synthesized compounds	are expected to possess	interesting antibacterial, antifungal, anti-malarial and anti-tuberculosis properties.Sponsored Research Project:
“Synthesis and	 Characterization of Metal Sulphides Nanoparticles via Thermal	decomposition of Schiff Base Metal Complexes as Single Source Precursor” under department of chemistry, Sanctioned by M.P. Council of science and Technology Bhopal.

Department of Mathematics
The department of Mathematics is involved in teaching Engg. Math to BE and M.Tech. students	of all branches of Engg. The department has adequate number of experienced faculty members who have many good papers to their credit. Their papers are published in International &	National Journals. The department is fully committed to provide support to the	students to help them to mould	their carrier in their respective fields.

Department of Humanities:
Department of Humanities is committed to imparting excellent teaching of English as a second language. This is accomplished by educating students using best method and technology available. The department offers a state-of-the-art language lab as part of curriculum for enhancement of language	 skills. The language lab caters	to the needs of	BE students in strengthening their knowledge in technical English and communication skills to serve as a launching pad to their career.
The lab	is equipped with multimedia systems and licensed language software. It	 enhances overall communication skills amongst students	including pronunciation, accent, aptitude and soft skills.	Besides the department	is also involved	 in running Business English Certificate course (BEC) which is designed to	 develop	 the professional communication skills of students. It is internationally recognized course which is aligned to the	 common European framework of references for English language.














Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 










