


  

 Institute of Technology & Management, Gwalior: Infrastructure 











































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














Infrastructure






About Institute
 Vision, Mission & Values
Perspective Plan
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board

Programmes Offered
IQAC
Infrastructure
Policy, Reports, SOP & Code of Conduct
Academic Calendar
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Curriculum Feedback
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us


 

Infrastructure & Physical facilities (Classrooms, Laboratories, Cultural, and Sports activities etc.):

The Institute of Technology & Management, Gwalior, is located on a sprawling 10.85 -acre campus known for its lush greenery and well-maintained landscape. The Institute is dedicated to providing high quality education and fostering the holistic development of its students.
With 45 classrooms, including seminar and conference halls, the campus is equipped with advanced ICT audio-video facilities in 25 rooms, featuring smart interactive LCDs, projectors, and Wi-Fi/LAN connectivity. This robust technological infrastructure enhances classroom interactions and enriches the learning experience. Additionally, all classrooms and laboratories are connected through a fiber optic backbone network, ensuring seamless connectivity across the campus.
The Institute boasts 42 state-of-the-art laboratories, including 18 specialized computing labs, providing essential hands-on experience to students. Integrated with ICT tools and supplemented by virtual labs, these facilities offer a comprehensive learning environment. 
The campus is well-equipped with 728 computers dedicated to student use, along with additional computing resources available to faculty. To support academic success, the Institute provides access to both licensed and open-source software, including ANSYS, Microsoft Office, and Turnitin for plagiarism detection. Each department within the Institute is equipped with notice boards, suggestion boxes, and well-furnished Boys’ and Girls’ Common Rooms (BCR & GCR) to meet students' needs. Continuous academic improvement is fostered through an ERP-based feedback system, with evaluations conducted every semester. 
The campus features the open amphitheatre, NAAD, with a seating capacity of over 2,500 people, serving as a venue for large gatherings and events. Additionally, the campus includes a conference hall (50 Seating Capacity) equipped with a smart board and three seminar halls designed to support academic and extracurricular activities. 
For students' convenience, a cooperative store offering photocopy services is available on campus, along with a centralized language laboratory that enhances communication skills and language learning. The Institute facilitate e-learning, conduct theory and MCQ-based examinations. A local chapter of NPTEL established in 2019, further supports e-learning through MOOC Page courses. Dedicated to holistic development of students, the Institute actively promotes participation in sports and cultural activities. 
A well-established sports cell, overseen by the Dean of Student Welfare and supported by a dedicated team, manages the campus's versatile multipurpose ground. This facility accommodates sports like cricket, football, volleyball, kabaddi, kho-kho, hockey, basketball, and badminton. The Institute also utilizes the sports grounds of ITM University, managed by the SLS Trust, to host larger events. Indoor games such as chess, table tennis, and carrom are also available, alongside an indoor gym that supports physical fitness and well-being. The campus features a meditation center and a lawn with seating for over 100 people, complete with a stage frequently used for yoga sessions and other events.
  





Auditorium
The in-house facilities will include a well planned 1,500 seater modern auditorium. Four modern conference halls of various sizes at ITM Campus are operational.








Meditation Centre (Zero Gravity)
Meditation centre inheriting the concept of zero gravity helps the fraternity of ITM to achieve this objective with a focal theme - ’It is important to know what you know but it is more important to know what you do not know.








Coffee Points
Apart from structured teaching and learning schedules, the institute has provided platforms for relaxation, exchange of views, and free discussions among students and faculty alike by establishing coffee points. 




Blocks of ITM:




Hostel







Mess & Dining hall







Library







ME Department (Carnot Block)







CSE Department (Neumann Block)







Basic Science and Exam Department (Newton Block)







Civil Department (Old Reynolds Block)







IT Department (New Reynolds Block)







EC Department (Shannon Block)







Training and Placement Block







WORKSHOP

















Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 









