
  

ITM Group of Institution, Gwalior(M.P.)





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














ITM (Institute of Technology & Management)






About Institute
Director's Message
Programmes Offered

Department




Contact Us



OUTCOME BASED EDUCATION

Course Outcomes (COs)
Outcome Based Education (OBE) Process Manual


POs
PEOs
PSOs


Attainment of Program Outcomes

Course Outcomes (COs) Attained

2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020





CIVIL ENGINEERING
About Department
Department of civil engineering having been formed since 2009, has already contributed significantly to the society. The department offers Bachelor of Engineering degree to the students. The department actively promotes events which enhances the technical, communicational and organizational skills. 
Our Vision
To establish a centre of excellence in the field of civil engineering for imparting technical education and conducting cutting-edge research; to serve as a valuable resource for industry and society.
Our Mission

To provide education, training, and resources to develop civil engineering technical manpower to fulfil current and future industry demands.   
To build new knowledge by conducting cutting-edge research in continuous collaboration with industry, with a focus on the development of leadership skills in young minds.
To produce Civil Engineers who are ethically and morally responsible towards the society and nation.


Program Educational Objectives 

The graduate will be able to practice civil engineering in infrastructure industries, public sector undertakings and entrepreneurship.
The graduate will be able to pursue higher education in the various domains of Civil Engineering for their knowledge enhancement.
The graduate will be able to showcase leadership skills, team spirit and ethical practices.

Program Specific Outcomes  

The graduate will be able to practice codal provisions like IRC, IS, NBC, CPHEEO manuals for planning & designing of civil infrastructures.
The graduate will be able to draw and design the various civil Engineering structures by using software such as AUTO-CAD, STAAD-Pro, Google SketchUp etc.
The graduates will be able to perform effectively as an individual or in a team having acquired leadership skills and manage projects in multidisciplinary environments.




HOD's Desk 
Construction industry is flourishing now-a-days with a huge demand of quality civil engineers, for fulfilling this, our departments contributing by developing through practical approach of subjects, better infrastructure; we are giving special attention on communication skills, innovative projects so they can lead in the professional world.
The faculties are qualified and co-operative and always keen to support the student for the betterment of academics. We are glad to inform you that our students won many competitions at state and national level, our alumni serving as a good human resource in various public and private sector.


Infrastructure
The Department of civil engineering offers modernized laboratories for Hydraulic engineering, Fluid Mechanics, Geotechnical engineering, Advanced Surveying to name a few. The department is supported by two smart class rooms consist of sophisticated facilities. The students are also facilitated with Computer Labs to inculcate soft skills and proper understanding of software’s related to civil engineering.



learning process and methodology
Under the Students Chapter: Society of Civil Engineers, BUILDING DESIGN AND DRAWING competition was organized successfully. This event involved the participation of seventy one students specifically of department of Civil Engineering. 


Events & Seminars/Conf./Workshop

								Department of Civil Engineering IITM has MoU with Indo-German Tool Room, Indore which is being used to conduct a number of short term courses to provide intensive training in CAD CAM, Pro-E, Unigraphics, and IDEA. It has helped the faculty and the students to enhance their capability as a Civil Engineer. And also the faculty is engaged in various sponsored projects. Department of Civil Engg. ITM also have MOU with Delhi College of Engg., New Delhi. DCE will provide collaborative efforts in the field of Laboratory Development, Training of Staff of ITM, Guest lectures by the faculty of DCE. Delhi, Guidance in the project work of senior students and R&D projects.





















Academic Activities (Industrial Training)
 
 1.	Students of 5th semester were taken for  industrial visit under the “BORDER  RESEARCH ORGANIZATION”  to Rohtang pass situated at Leh-Manali highway, Himachal Pradesh for the purpose of understanding  TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION.  

 2.	Students of 7th semester visited MATATILA DAM built over situated at Shivpuri, MADHYA PRADESH. 

 3.	For the enhancement of  practical knowledge of the students a industrial visit to KESHAR APARTMENTS(GWALIOR) and ITM (UNIVERSITY)  













  
  








Learning Process and Methodology

 The faculty of civil engineering believes in delivering lectures with modern methodologies such as Power point presentation, Models and video lectures. The Students are made to perform practical in the laboratories for better understanding of concepts. It is also taken care of that the students give seminars on technical, social and self-interested topics to give thrust to his/her personality.
							 




















Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 










