


  




Institute of Technology & Management, Gwalior: Best Institute in Gwalior Madhya Pradesh





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














About Institute-ITM (Institute of Technology & Management)






About Institute
 Vision, Mission & Values
Perspective Plan
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board

Programmes Offered
IQAC
Infrastructure
Policy, Reports, SOP & Code of Conduct
Academic Calendar
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Curriculum Feedback
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us


 


About Institute
Established in 1997 by Samata Lok Sansthan Trust at Gwalior, ITM is approved by AICTE, Govt. of India, and recognised by Govt. of M.P. and affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki Vishwavidyalaya (University of Technology of M. P.), Bhopal and affiliated MBA program to Jiwaji University, Gwalior. The Institute is conceived with an objective to impart quality education in the field of engineering and technology so that it emerges out as a world-class institution by contributing towards research and education and to produce high class engineers and technologists. The management of the institute is committed to rear this institution so that it becomes the apex centre for quality teaching, development, innovation and extension services in engineering and technology.
With the evolution of interdisciplinary courses like quantum information theory, quantum computing and nano-technology, the Institute is striving to integrate engineering as a concept with technology as a platform taking management as a back bone to convert knowledge to global wealth & prosperity. The Institute recognizes the importance and need of such a scheme in the ideas and thoughts on various technological models. The teaching and learning methodologies follow a rigorous regime involving extended hours of work and challenging assignments.
Curriculum delivery is affected through group and self learning seminars, conferences, case studies, live projects with industry, guest lectures and panel discussions with senior managers and professionals from the industry/Corporate sector /research organizations. The emphasis is on involving the students in learning and helping them to relate concepts and themes to technical cum management requirements. The system of assessment is based on continuous evaluation through tests, surprise quizzes, home assignments, laboratory work, industry projects, presentations etc. The sole objective is to provide value added technical education and to produce quality technologists and professionals who are capable to shape the society for better and better advancement and to improve the quality of life of Mankind.
Today, time compression has become one of the necessary conditions for successful functioning of an organization. Organizations need to recreate a lean, thin and agile entity from the large scale behemoth that it is today. This institute’s rehabilitation process is knowledge driven in terms of strategy, technology or logic of competitive success. This is achieved by developing amongst students a culture of inquiry and research through highly competitive academic environment, close student-faculty interaction and linkages with industry and other teaching academic institutions. Monitoring of students by senior managers and professionals from technical world, summer internship projects are the significant measures to abreast students with the latest development and requirements of professional, technological and corporate world.
The Institute provides an academic environment with accent on self-learning. Students are actively involved in academic and co-curricular activities. ITM is a recognised Centre of Research in Engineering and Technology.













Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 









