


  

ITM Group of Institution, Gwalior(M.P.)





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














ITM (Institute of Technology & Management)






About Institute
Director's Message
Programmes Offered

Department




Contact Us



OUTCOME BASED EDUCATION

Course Outcomes (COs)
Outcome Based Education (OBE) Process Manual


POs
PEOs
PSOs


Attainment of Program Outcomes

Course Outcomes (COs) Attained

2022-2023
2021-2022
2020-2021
2019-2020





MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
About Department

 Mechanical engineering is one of the oldest and broadest engineering disciplines that apply the principles of engineering, physics and materials science, Mathematics for analysis, design, manufacturing, and maintenance of mechanical systems. It is the branch of engineering that involves the production and usage of heat and mechanical power for the design, production, and operation /Maintenance of machines and tools required for process/chemical industries, refineries and petrochemicals, fertilizers, air separation plants and cryogenics, power plants and infrastructure projects. This engineering field requires an understanding of core concepts including mechanics, kinematics, thermodynamics, materials science, structural analysis, and electricity.
								
 Mechanical engineers use these core principles along with tools like computer-aided engineering, and product life-cycle management to design and analyze manufacturing plants, industrial equipment and machinery, heating and cooling systems, transport systems, aircraft, marines, robotics, medical devices, weapons, and others.
Mechanical engineering field has continually evolved to incorporate advancements in technology, and mechanical engineers today are pursuing research /developments in such fields as composites, mechatronics, and nanotechnology. Mechanical engineering is adding additional inputs for aerospace engineering, metallurgical engineering, civil engineering, electrical engineering, petroleum engineering, manufacturing engineering, chemical engineering, and other engineering disciplines to varying amounts.
 Mechanical engineers may also work in the field of Biomedical engineering, specifically with biomechanics, transport phenomena, mechatronics, nanotechnology and modeling of biological systems, like soft tissue mechanics. 
 A versatile and most-sought-after branch, manned by highly qualified and experienced (Academic and Industrial) faculty members with adequate infrastructure and lab facilities. 
Our Vision
To impart quality education in mechanical engineering so as to address the evaluation of industry and society there by serving the nation and mankind.
Our Mission

To provide high-quality education through an effective teaching pedagogy that encourages active student participation.
                                        To develop scientifically strong engineers capable of serving the needs of industry, higher education, research and startups.
                                        To create a society that has young minds that are rooted with professional and behavioral ethics.



Program Educational Objectives 

To prepare students in such a way that they can apply relevant skills of basic science, engineering design, modeling, manufacturing, and management to real-life problems in Industries.
To encourage the incumbents for higher studies such that they can impart usefulcontribution to the field of education, research and modern technology in Mechanical Engineering as well as other allied fields.
To prepare students in such a manner that they effectively participate in multicultural and multidisciplinary projects maintaining industrial ethics for the sustainable development of our society.

Program Specific Outcomes  

Graduates will be able to apply mathematical and advanced software tools for design, analysis and fabrication of components used in the field of mechanical engineering.
Graduates will be able to understand about engines, machineries, system anddevelop critical skills to analyze the cause and effect of complicatedmechanical processes.
Graduates will be able to exhibit team spirit for working in projects aswell as pursuing higher studies to contribute in mechanical engineeringresearch and development.




HOD's Desk 









A very warm welcome to the website of the Department of Mechanical Engineering ITM GROUP of Institution, Gwalior. The discipline of mechanical engineering has a long and distinguished history of innovative invention and technological breakthroughs that have tremendously benefitted the progress of man and society. We have a team of dedicated and experienced faculty with research bent of mind and well developed laboratories, driving the department towards excellence in teaching as well as R & D activities. The department has excellent Industry-Institute interaction and organizes periodic Industrial visits and industrial expert lecture series to provide an opportunity for the students to interact with working professionals from industries. The departmental Societies, SAE-India provide a platform to students, innovation and opportunities to solve real world engineering and societal problems.
We always believe in dynamic personality, leadership quality, creative thinking of the students to enhance the quality of personal life and the society as a whole.
Wish you all the best...




Infrastructure 

 It provides an ambience where education doesn’t really feel like hard work but fun, an opportunity for the best learning you’ve ever had!
 The Department has a fully equipped academic infrastructure with round the clock power backup. Besides the classrooms, tutorial rooms, faculty cabins, seminar hall, , we have well equipped labs and workshops, where you can not only carry out practical training, but also indulge in extensive research. The spacious hi-tech classrooms are equipped with state-of-the-art multi-media teaching aids. A computer centre, with high-end computers and a Virtual Lab has been established. Some images of our department lab are as follow:





Theory of Machine Lab







Dynamics of Machine Lab







Basic Mechanical Engineering Lab 







Basic Mechanical Engineering Lab 







Strength and Mechanics of Material Lab 







Thermodynamics and Thermal Lab







CAD / CAM  Lab 







Fluid Mechanics lab and Turbines 






Event/ Seminars/Conference/Workshop 
Expert lecture and Industrial visit
Department of Mechanical Engineering (2018-19)

                            One day expert talk was conducted on “Recent advances in Manufacturing Engineering” on August 25th, 2018 organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering, ITM Gwalior (M.P). 
Venue: Seminar Hall Carnot Block, ITM Gwalior
Date: August 25th 2018
Topic: Recent advances in Manufacturing Engineering
Resource Person: Dr. Sanjay Agrawal, Associate Professor & Dean, BIET Jhansi
Coordinator: Mr. Amit Jain, Ms. Neelam Baghel,Assistant Professor, ITM-GOI




Expert lecture and Industrial visit







Expert lecture and Industrial visit




One day expert talk was conducted on “Refrigeration and air conditioning” on October 5th, 2018 organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering, ITM Gwalior (M.P). 
Venue: VSB Seminar Hall , ITM Gwalior
Date: October 5th 2018
Topic:Refrigeration and air conditioning
Resource Person: Dr. Sateesh Pal Singh Rajput, Associate Professor& Head Mechanical Engineering Department, Maulana Aazad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal
Coordinator: Mr. Amit Jain, Ms. Neelam Baghel,Assistant Professor, ITM-GOI




Expert lecture and Industrial visit







Expert lecture and Industrial visit




One day expert talk was conducted on “Additive Manufacturing” on Feburary 4th, 2019 organized by Department of Mechanical Engineering, ITM Gwalior (M.P).
Venue: VSB Seminar Hall , ITM Gwalior
Date: February, 4th 2019
Topic: Additive Manufacturing
Resource Person: Dr. Prashant Jain, Associate Professor& Dean,IIITDM, Jabalpur
Coordinator: Mr. Amit Jain, Mr. Ishwar Gupta,  Mr.Deepak Sharma, Mr.Narendra Verma, Mr. Vishal Shukla ,Assistant Professor, ITM-GOI




Expert lecture and Industrial visit







Expert lecture and Industrial visit







Industrial Visit/Industrial Tour
One day industrial visit

Name of Industry: Central institute of Plastic Engineering & Technology, Bhopal
Date:7th September 2018
Coordinator: Mr. Amit Jain ,Assistant Professor, Deptt. of ME, ITM GOI




Industrial visit







Industrial visit







Industrial visit







Industrial visit



One day industrial visit

Name of Industry:HIM cast Limited and Murmugaon Port, Goa
Date:26th  September 2018
Coordinator:Mr. Amit Jain , Mr. Deeapk Sharma,Assistant Professor,Mr. Anil Goyal   
     lab Instructor. Deptt. of ME, ITM GOI





Industrial visit







Industrial visit







Industrial visit







Industrial visit




Learning process and methodology
The methodology is adopted to ensure proper learning which includes Lectures, Tutorials and Practical where tutorial and practical is in groups of 30 each. ABCAS and PROJECT BASED LEARNING system is introduced to create new innovation and ideas among faculties and students. 

Evaluation Process
Internal Assessment is based on:

Mid Semester Tests (MSTs)
Activities under ABCAS
PBL
Attendance
Discipline & General behaviors of students



Institutional/Industrial Trainings (6 weeks)

The students undergo a 4 weeks practical training in the Institute at the end of six semester and another value added training of 6 weeks duration in the institute/industry at the end of 4th semester.
Students submit a report on the conduct of training and also give a seminar/presentation in the class

Evaluation of training is done on the basis of performance & conduct during the training, training report, presentation and viva voce besides the value addition in students to increase their professional competence




Industrial Training ( 4 months) 

The students spend their entire semester (7th/8th) in an industry of relevance for their 4 months industrial training.
The student is permitted to join the training only if it is approved by the department.
During the course of the training, faculty visits the industry to monitor the performance and conduct of the students working as trainees.
Students submit a report on the conduct of training and also give a seminar/presentation in the class.

Training awards are based on performance in training, feedback report of the faculty, training manager, training report, mid semester report, daily diary, viva voce conducted by external examiner besides the value addition in students to increase their professional competence.




Project Work

All the final year students are required to undergo a major project in their final academic semester.
Both the project works are held under the supervision of senior faculty members
The project may be sponsored or facilitated by the industry.



Interaction with the Industry
We believe that engineering education is incomplete without the support and collaboration of the industry. For this purpose, the department has developed strong linkages with the industry and renowned academic institutions. The interfacing with the industry helps the students in the following areas:

Industrial visits- wherein the students get an opportunity to see the real application of engineering 
Expert lectures- The experts from various fields share their expertise and knowledge with the faculty and the students
Workshops on specific technologies- The students get a hand on experience in these workshops
Conferences & Symposiums- The students get an opportunity to explore their research potential
Institutional & Industrial Training- Interfacing with the industry opens up multidimensional avenues for the students
Value added Trainings: In-house value added trainings in niche areas like C/C++, JAVA, and Networking etc. are offered to students for developing their competence in specific areas that also gives them a competitive edge over others.
Placements- The department supports and coordinates with the Centralized Training & Placement Cell of ITM group for all placement related activities viz. interview preparation, inviting the companies for the placement drives and conduct of the same.

For all the aforesaid purposes, students are actively involved. The students have been identified as student coordinators who are working together in order to meet these objectives. Besides, these activities also inculcates managerial & leadership qualities in the students. The student coordinators are well guided and supported by two faculty members of the department who have been identified as industrial coordinators.



Personality Development & Grooming of the students
The department emphasizes on personality development & grooming of the students in order to develop professional capabilities of the students. Regular Personality development programs are organized in the department in collaboration with professional organizations. Besides, motivational lectures, Group Discussions, Mock interview sessions etc. are also organized on a regular basis. The students also get an opportunity to improve their communication skills in the language lab of the institute.


Students Counseling
One faculty member has been identified as the class incharge for every class. His/her role is to guide the students for:

Academic excellence
Personality Development
Positive attitude
Good behavior
Discipline
Proper Dress & Uniform
Etiquettes & Manners
Motivation to students to actively participate in extra-curricular activities viz. sports, cultural activities etc.
To refrain the students not to indulge in ragging & other social evils  

















Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 










