


  

ITM, Gwalior(M.P.)






































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














TAP (Training, Augmentation & Placement Assistance)	





 


About TAP
TAP Team
Industry Speak About ITM Gwalior
Major Recruiters:
TAP Events
MOUs & Collaborations
Placement Record
Progression for higher education





About TAP
ITM Gwalior has always given training, augmentation and placements an utmost priority and to implement it into action an exclusive training, augmentation and placement assistance cell (TAP) has been established with state–of-art facilities. The cell is headed by experienced professionals from Industry.
TAP Cell is responsible for conducting following activities in time bound schedules without violating the time table of university curriculum.
Vision of the Department 
To Bridge the gap between Students’ skill,  knowledge and the industry's Requirement and expectation by Building employability through various workshops, seminars and campus recruitment training so that the student can grab the best opportunities and will grow vigorously in their career
Mission of the Department 
The Training Augmentation and Placement team Team of ITM Gwalior is dedicated towards achieving 100% placements by collaborating with HR Teams of different corporate to ensure the smooth functioning of the Campus-Recruitment process. Meanwhile assisting students through regular one-on-one counseling for betterment of the students facing difficulties in interviews.





Mr. Arpit Singh Chauhan
(Dean/Director TAP CELL I/C)
																	  Email id : arpit.chauhan@itmuniversity.ac.in
																	  Phone No : +91-9691973919





Mrs. Shikha Sharma
(Asst. Director Placement)
																	Email id : shikhasharma@itmuniversity.ac.in
																	Phone No : +91-9229333335





Industry Speak About ITM Gwalior:


Aditya Mahajan, Recruiter Campus Hiring, TCS

It was a wonderful and great experience for conducting interviews at ITM. Students were well prepared. College Management has invested a lot in grooming them. Good performance by students. Good professionalism.

Lakshmi, Regional Head, Wipro

It was a good batch that we interviewed met our most of the requirement. Technical knowledge of students was good but can be better. They need to work on communication skills. Looking forward to conduct more drives in future.

Ronak Choudhary, Regional Head, Cognizant 

The spirits shown by students was very delightful and encouraging for us & for our company too. Did bulk hiring even on the virtual mode. Students have good technical knowledge. 

Piuli Ghosh, Campus Lead, ICICI

We had a good experience!! We expected more candidates for interview, out of 30 to 40 Students almost 50% got placed. Decent quality of students. 

Deepti Thakur, Campus Team, Xiaomi

Good, was a good experience, glad to provide this opportunity to the students of ITM, students should work on Aptitude part.   

 Sandeep Mishra, HR, VISA Steel

It was an amazing experience and the students were really enthusiastic. Every year we got upgraded batch. Will love to visit again.

Kajal Soni, HR Recruiter, Thermax Limited

During the pandemic time, it was unexpected to conduct such a wonderful drive on a Virtual Mode. Students have good technical knowledge. Great Experience!!

Akhil James, HR Specialist, FedEx

Had a great experience visiting ITM, Courtesy campus members really appreciate the efforts and support provided. Well-groomed and prepared students.

Achu Mani, Senior Analyst, Mphasis

It was a good batch that we interviewed. Good luck to each of them. Also, thanks for all the support.

Amrita Paul, DGM, IBM India

Good Campus. Got lot of support from the staff, well organized. It was a pleasure being here.

Ms. Shazia Siddiqui, HR Manager, Infosys Technologies

Extremely impressive infrastructure. A good team of officials with a good vision for the institute and the students. The students look eager to learn and grasp things and with the given atmosphere in the institute the students will definitely be groomed into good professionals.

Varun Jain, Senior Project Manager, Infosys Limited

Overall good performance by students. Impressive communication skills. Good infrastructure and facilities at campus.

Major Recruiters
										
										

TAP Events
											

Personal Training for Performing well during interview: Before every placement/ internship drive students are get a personal training session from the members of TAP CELL so that the thry get to know how to perform really well and give their best during the interview.
												
Industrial Expert Talk: Renowned people from industries come to our campus in online and offline mode to give overview and tips to students about the corporate world.
Summer Internship Drive: It is mandatory for every student to go for a 45 days summer internship in which they have to take industrial exposure.
Campus recruitment Drive: We at ITM Gwalior, invites all the renowned recruiter for conducting placement drive in the campus, followed by various process. The students apply for the same and grab best available opportunities for them.



Yearwise MoU Details
MoU_2023-2024
MoU_2022-2023
MoU_2021-2022 
MoU_2020-2021 
MoU_2019-2020
EduSkills Foundation ("Eduskills")
												


EduSkills and Institute of Tochnology & Managemont, Gwallor have decided to work together for the
purpose of expanding digital skills into higher education system through offering various world class technical
programs in Networking, Cybersecurity, Cloud computing, aulomation, RPA and other industry 4.0 skills to
their students. 
AWS Academy Member Institution
ITM Gwalior alliances AWS Academy to Enhance Students with Industry ready Cloud Computing Skills. This new verge by Gwalior is in coalign with its foresight to include best class industry trending technical courses in its engineering and management programs. According to this program, AWS Certified faculty members of ITM Gwalior will deliver cloud computing, machine learning (ML) and data analytics covering courses.


Microsoft and ITM are collaborating to provide training in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs). This initiative will offer programs in emerging technologies like AI, Cyber Security, and Green Skills, aiming to equip young students with industry-relevant skills, enhance their employability, and connect them to job opportunities.

ITM Gwalior has partnered with Bajaj FinServ to offer a career-oriented Certificate Program in Banking, Finance, and Insurance (CPBFI). It is extremely important to acquire new knowledge and skills through such programs and be ready for future opportunities.



Placement Record
2023-24

2022-23

2021-22

2020-21

2019-20


















Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 










