


  




 Institute of Technology & Management, Gwalior: Gwalior Details





































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














Gwalior Offers






About Institute
 Vision, Mission & Values
Perspective Plan
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board

Programmes Offered
IQAC
Infrastructure
Policy, Reports, SOP & Code of Conduct
Academic Calendar
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Curriculum Feedback
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us


 

What Gwalior Offers




The Fort







Jiwaji Rao Scindia Museum



Gwalior is a historical city in the heart of India, situated in the State of Madhya Pradesh. The Ancient Indian Classical School of Music “Dhrupad” was finetuned here and spread to various parts of India to acquire local flavours. Known as “The City of Music”, the legendary musician Tansen also belonged to Gwalior and became one of the nine jewells of
							 
Emperor Akbar’s court. Tansen innovated many complex & beautiful ‘Ragas’. Thereafter the city responded so well to music that few members of every family took classical music as their life time passion. Daily practice sessions in each household used to give out-of-the-world feeling to the city. Just 3-4 decades ago joint families crumbled to growing economic pressures and musicians became jobless in independent India with no patronage from any quarter. Gwalior still has very sensible and sensitive audience of music and musicians find it very satisfying to perform here and receive proper responses from the audiences.
							 
The city has perhaps the richest musical tradition among all the cities in this great country starting from Tansen, Baijubabra, Hassukhan, Haddukhan, Krishnarao Pandit, Bala Saheb Puchhwale, Chote Bhayya Puchhwale, Bande Ali Khan, Shankar Rao Pandit and to come to the living legends Malini Rajurkar, Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, the list is endless.
							 
Gwalior has beautiful large Fort Palace built during Tomar dynasty who were connossieurs of Art & Music. Exquisite stone works can still be found here inspite of immoral plundering by vested interests. Agra is 110 kms from Gwalior and 1½ hours journey by express trains and is easily reachable to Tajmahal. Khajuraho group of temples depicting all facets of life 4 hours journey by road. Mitawali & Padavali has a group of 108 ruines of temples and is 20 kms from Gwalior. Orchha is 100 kms from Gwalior and is a treat for weekend trips as the village still carries old time feel with palaces, temples, cenotaphs and ruins along the banks of Betwa river.
							 
Modern Gwalior is new educational hub and a bustling city with a population of over 1.6 million. It is centrally located 317 kms from Delhi and 400 kms from Bhopal. It is well connected with Delhi, Bhopal, Indore, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad by trains, road and by air from New Delhi and Jabalpur.
							 
Most famous landmarks include the living Palaces of Scindias - Jai Vilas Palace, the tombs of the famous musician Tansen & his mentor teacher Mohammad Ghaus.
							 
ITM Universe itself has visitors from all over the region to see its vast collection of sculptures and paintings as well its most applauded Amphitheater. The industrial history of the Gwalior dates back to later part of 19th Century when Birlas established their Textile business. The well known Grasim & Gwalior suiting brand was born in this region. Gwalior has kept pace with time making it emerge as a vibrant city of Madhya Pradesh. The City has attracted major corporate houses like Cadbury, Kodak, SRF, J.K. Industries, Crompton Greaves, Flex Chemical and Atlas.
							 

The Fort: There is much to see in and around the fort. Guides can be hired at the gate. Every evening light-and-sound show is held at the open-air theater outside the Man Singh Palace at fort. 
Jain Sculptures:There are many impressively big Jain Sculptures, which were originally cut into the cliff faces in the 15th century fort. They were defaced during Mughal time. The Images are in five main groups.
 Archaeological Museum: Within the Gujri Palace is the Museum. It houses an extensive collection of Hindu and Jain sculptures and copies of the Caves frescos. 
 Jai Vilas Palace and Scindia Museum:Though the Scindia family still dwells in this Palace, a part has been converted into a museum. The museum houses ostentatious items such as Belgian cut glass furniture, stuffed tigers, a Rolls Royce on rails, a German bubble car, a life-size marble statue of Leda and a silver railway that carried brandy and cigars around the dining table. The main Durbar hall with its giant chandeliers is captivating.  
 Tighara Lake: Approx. 20 kms from the city of Gwalior is huge lake where water sports are available on nominal payment apart from being a nice place for picnics in monsoon season.
 Motimahal Palace: A place which was turned into a Govt. Office in Independent India has beautiful painted ceilings and walls, recently renovated by INTACH in its original grandeur.
 Chambal Safari: Dolphin & Crocodiles are breed and can be seen in Chambal river by Chambal Safari boats run by MPSTDC.












Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 









