


  





 Institute of Technology & Management, Gwalior: Messages







































Online Apply
Alumni
MIS 
LMS 





Call +91-7773005065
admission@itmgoi.in









Toggle navigation







Home

About us 

Vision,Mission & Values
About Institute
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board
Director's Message
Programmes Offered
IQAC
NIRF
Infrastructure
Policy & Report
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Institute Distinctiveness

Institute Best Practices-1
Institute Best Practices-2
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us




Admission 

Under Graduate Courses
Post Graduate Courses

Apply Online
How To Seek Admission




Department 

Computer Science & Engineering
Electronics & Comm. Engineering
Mechanical Engineering

Civil Engineering
Information Technology

Master of Business Administration
Engineering Sciences & Humanities
Central Library




TAP Cell 

 TAP Cell




Clubs/Cell





Performing Arts Club (PAC)
Other Clubs & Activities
UBA Cell
NSS Cell
 Sport Cell
 WOMEN EMPOWERMENT CELL (WEC)



Alumni 

 Alumni Online Portal
 Alumni Portal Registration And Demo
 Alumni Mentorship Program
 Alumni Life Membership Video Testimonial
 Alumni Chapters
 Discussion Forum
 Alumni Speaks



Research 

 Research and Development Cell





 Innovation Ecosystem
ITM International Journal


ITM International Conference
Faculty Development Program (FDP)



NAAC 

Criteria
Policies

SSR After DVV_Clarification
Feedback
IQAC
Committees
MOUs & Collaborations
Appreciation & Recognition



IEEE

IEEE



IQAC

IQAC



Gallery 

Cultural Event
Experts from Industry and Academia
Infrastructure
Sports
Student Photos Gallery
Life@ITM
Video@ITM














Message Board






About Institute
 Vision, Mission & Values
Perspective Plan
Statutory Approvals & Affliations
ITM Officials
Board of Governors
Message Board

Programmes Offered
IQAC
Infrastructure
Policy, Reports, SOP & Code of Conduct
Academic Calendar
Student Magazine
Anti-Ragging Committee
Curriculum Feedback
What Gwalior Offers
Contact Us


 




Chairman's Message
"... nothing gives me more happiness & satisfaction than seeing smiles on the faces of young boys & girls as they enjoy the learning process in the campus, make life long friends, work hard to cope with the challenges of their curricular & co-curricular schedules and indulge with vigour in extracurricular activities, find time to party, groom themselves as fine Ladies & Gentlemen sensitive to global arts & culture, ready to plunge into their chosen professions and finally work overtime to care for their immediate & Global family and see that Mother Earth and all its inhabitants are saved from catastrophic human interventions.

									I do believe of these young people becoming ethically right, successful & enjoy their lives to the fullest..."
				


 

Managing Director's Message
"Past few decades have seen the use of  the word “innovation” more than ever before for the simple reason that the solutions provided were derived by applying older techniques and that too traditionally and therefore newer challenges and problems could not be addressed in sustainable manner. The sudden economic recession of  recent times faced by so many countries is one of  the examples that solutions need to be better, pragmatic, holistic and above all sustainable. Here lies the responsibilities on institutions like us to provide environment where younger minds can be motivated to solve the problems of  their times by better application of  technology, management and networking of  thoughts and sharing of  knowledge.
									
									I welcome you to open up your ideas and make this world a much better place for you and next generations. 
									
									Needless to say that ITM is the Place. "
									





Director's Message
Welcome to Institute of Technology and Management, Gwalior. ITM, as is popularly known, has already established its position as a top technical institute in Madhya Pradesh. 
									
									Apart from imparting technical skills in the existing departments of  Computer Science, Information Technology, Electronics and Communication, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering and Mechanical Engineering, MBA, we also develop  an over persona of our students. An all round approach is taken for this purpose, so that our students achieve success in their pursuits. In order to ensure a holistic development among students, the institute has introduced the newly designed activities the Activity Based Continuous Assessment System (ABCAS). and Project Based Learning for more hands-on experience complimented with strong fundamentals. This offers more choices to the students and help them imbibe necessary social skills as well. ITM strongly encourages its faculties in active research collaboration on projects of great societal importance. Apart form from the rigourous curriculum, various activities at technical club, soft skill tranings, lectures delivered from industry, technical workshops and training results into more than 80% placement of our eligible students. We at ITM also cater to our social responsibility and we are proud to be selected as one of the institutes for Unnat Bharat Abhiyan (sponsored by MHRD, Government of India) aimed at empowering rural India. We have also successfully completed Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY)  courses. Recently faculty members of ITM Gwalior have been granted projects by MP Council of Science and Research Bhopal to stir research in Electronics Engineering and Basic Sciences.
									
									With such a multifaceted outlook, ITM would soon become one of the leading technical institutes of our country. A journey has already begun, but there is a long way to go. The active support of all students, faculty, and staff, will mentor us to  fulfill the vision of ITM. At the end, I congratulate all the entrants for choosing ITMGOI as wings to their aspirations.
Dr. Meenakshi Mazumdar
									Director, ITM-GWALIOR















Featured Links




About Us
Online Apply
Online Payment
Vacancy/Career
Alumni




Curriculum Feedback
Anti-Ragging
Anti-Ragging-2023
Anti-Ragging-2022










 ITM Gwalior Address



ITM Campus, 
 Opp. Sithouli Railway Station,
NH-75 Sithouli, Jhansi Road,
Gwalior - 475001, ( M.P. ), INDIA 
0751-2440056
0751-2432977








 For Admission


+91-7773005065 
+91-7773001624 
+91-7773001627 
admission@itmgoi.in







Ranking & Accreditation



 













Copyright @ 2024 ITM, Gwalior (M.P.)


















 









